download-and-setup/README.md, before:

# Download and Setup

This tutorial will guide installation of TensorFlow on Linux, OSX and Windows.

# Docker

In this tutorial we will use [docker](https://www.docker.com/) containers to handle dependancies and run our code.
Docker is a container which allow us to run our code in an encapsuled container.
The language of choice will be python2.

## 1. Installation of docker (all operating systems)

Instructions for installing docker can be found [here](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/#installation), the instructions contains guides for most operating systems.

## 2. Using dockerhub

After installing docker you are ready to go! The docker image that you will use for this tutorial is an extension of TensorFlow's own nightly build docker image (with sklearn, wget, scikit-image etc.).

Getting access to docker images on dockerhub (`hub.docker.com`) is easy! When choosing your docker image just type the dockerhub username followed by the project. In our case the username will be `alrojo` and the repository `tf-sklearn-cpu`, I encourage you to learn the fundamentals of docker, in the [project folder](https://hub.docker.com/r/alrojo/docker-whale/) (on docker hub) I have supplied the `Dockerfile` commands from which it was created.

To run the docker type

>docker run -it alrojo/tf-sklearn-cpu

this starts up a docker container from the `alrojo/tf-sklearn-cpu` image.
Where `-it` is required for an interactive experience with the docker bash environment.
To exit the interactive environment of the docker container type

>exit

(Don't worry! We need to rerun it with some other flags in just a moment.)

## 3. Forwarding port

As the docker system runs independent of your host system, we need to enable port forwarding (for jupyter notebook) and sharing of directories.

First, make sure that you have downloaded this repository, if not, you can either go to `github.com/alrojo/tensorflow_tutorial`, click `Clone or download`, download as zip and extract to your desired folder.
Alternatively you can run the command

>git clone https://github.com/alrojo/tensorflow_tutorial.git

In the following $PATH\_TO\_FOLDER should be replaced by the name of the your desired folder, an example of a path could be `~/deep\_learning\_courses.
And the name of the repository will be denoted as tensorflow_tutorial.
Given these namings, run the following line in your shell

>docker run -p 8888:8888 -v $PATH\_TO\_FOLDER/tensorflow_tutorial:/mnt/myproject -it alrojo/tf-sklearn-cpu

where `-it` is required for an interactive experience with the docker bash environment, `-p` is for port forwarding	and `-v` is for mounting your given folder to the docker container.

This should leave you in the root directory of your docker container with port forwarded and shared directory, run the command

>./run\_jupyter.sh

Your volume should be available through the `/mnt` folder, run

Open a new tab in your browser and type localhost:8888 in the browser address bar. Note that you cannot have any other notebooks running simultaneously.

Click on /mnt, click on `myproject`, now you can start the exercises!

## Installation of nvidia-docker for GPU

NOTICE: For the Nvidia deep learning camp we have a setup with Boston. This will be available later today at lab 3

To run neural nets on GPU accelerated hardware we use a slight modification of docker called [nvidia-docker](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker) (reason is that docker does not yet support the use-case of the specialised hardware and drivers we need).

Not yet supported %(need sudo access to a GPU server to test this)

Commit message:

more explicit guide and windows 10 support

download-and-setup/README.md, after:

# Download and Setup

This tutorial will guide installation of TensorFlow on Linux, OSX and Windows.

# Docker

In this tutorial we will use [docker](https://www.docker.com/) containers to handle dependancies and run our code.
Docker is a container which allow us to run our code in an encapsuled container.
The language of choice will be python2.

## 1. Installation of docker (all operating systems)

Instructions for installing docker can be found [here](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/#installation), the instructions contains guides for most operating systems.

## 2. Using dockerhub

After installing docker you are ready to go! The docker image that you will use for this tutorial is an extension of TensorFlow's own nightly build docker image (with sklearn, wget, scikit-image etc.).

Getting access to docker images on dockerhub (`hub.docker.com`) is easy! When choosing your docker image just type the dockerhub username followed by the project. In our case the username will be `alrojo` and the repository `tf-sklearn-cpu`, I encourage you to learn the fundamentals of docker, in the [project folder](https://hub.docker.com/r/alrojo/docker-whale/) (on docker hub) I have supplied the `Dockerfile` commands from which it was created.

To run the docker type

>docker run -it alrojo/tf-sklearn-cpu

this starts up a docker container from the `alrojo/tf-sklearn-cpu` image.
Where `-it` is required for an interactive experience with the docker bash environment.
To exit the interactive environment of the docker container type

>exit

(Don't worry! We need to rerun it with some other flags in just a moment.)

## 3. Forwarding port

As the docker system runs independent of your host system, we need to enable port forwarding (for jupyter notebook) and sharing of directories.

First, make sure that you have downloaded this repository, if not, you can either go to `github.com/alrojo/tensorflow_tutorial`, click `Clone or download`, download as zip and extract to your desired folder.
Alternatively you can run the command

>git clone https://github.com/alrojo/tensorflow_tutorial.git

In the following `$PATH\_TO\_FOLDER` should be replaced by the name of the your desired folder, an example of a path could be `~/deep\_learning\_courses.`
And the name of the repository will be denoted as tensorflow_tutorial.
Given these namings, run the following line in your shell

>docker run -p 8888:8888 -v $PATH\_TO\_FOLDER/tensorflow_tutorial:/mnt/myproject -it alrojo/tf-sklearn-cpu

so if you are using `~/deep\_learning\_courses.` as your `$PATH\_TO\_FOLDER`, the command will look like this

>docker run -p 8888:8888 -v ~/deep\_learning\_courses/tensorflow_tutorial:/mnt/myproject -it alrojo/tf-sklearn-cpu

where `-it` is required for an interactive experience with the docker bash environment, `-p` is for port forwarding	and `-v` is for mounting your given folder to the docker container.

This should leave you in the root directory of your docker container with port forwarded and shared directory, run the command

>./run\_jupyter.sh

Your volume should be available through the `/mnt` folder, run

Open a new tab in your browser and type localhost:8888 in the browser address bar. Note that you cannot have any other notebooks running simultaneously.

NOTE: when using docker toolbox on windows the port will probably not bind to local host, instead you must find the port it binds to by typing the following in your docker prompt

>docker-machine ip

this should give you an ip that you can replace with localhost.

From within the notebook, click on `/mnt`, click on `myproject`, now you can start the exercises!

## Installation of nvidia-docker for GPU

NOTICE: For the Nvidia deep learning camp we have a setup with Boston. This will be available later today at lab 3

To run neural nets on GPU accelerated hardware we use a slight modification of docker called [nvidia-docker](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker) (reason is that docker does not yet support the use-case of the specialised hardware and drivers we need).

Not yet supported %(need sudo access to a GPU server to test this)
